# IBM-Data-Science-Applied-Capstone-Project

This repository will contain the contents of all the work done to complete the IBM Applied Data Science Capstone of the IBM Data Science Professional Certificate pathway, the final course entailing the work of a final project that will encompass various skills such as data wrangling, analysis, and visualization, all to simulate the work of real data scientists.

Before the final project, I had to complete an assignment that entailed using the Foursquare API to segment and cluster various neighborhoods in the city of Toronto. The Toronto Neighborhoods folder contains all the code and information about that specific aspect of the course.

Finally, the Capstone Project folder contains the code for the final project, along with a report of my findings and a presentation to visually show and discuss the results. Data science is not only about being able to find trends and patterns in the data, but also to be able to display your findings in a manner that can be understood by all. This communication aspect is vital to a data scientist's job and the report and presentation were made to simulate this aspect of a data scientist's work. The project I elected to work on was discovering New York City neighborhoods and boroughs based on high schools, specifically the average SAT score for the school. With this, I tried to find which boroughs had better schools using SAT scores as the metric to measure schools. I also explored individual boroughs using the Foursquare API to see if there were trends to what venues were located in areas with good schools.
